---
layout: page
title: Inclusivity Statement
permalink: /inclusivity-statement/
---

## Statement on Inclusivity and Equity by the membership of IBL SIGMAA

The charter of the Special Interest Group of the Mathematical Association of
America for Inquiry-Based Learning (IBL SIGMAA) articulates connections among
inquiry, inclusivity, and equity and makes them central to this groupâ€™s
purpose. The charter applies these themes both to students and to the community
of educators by inviting a diverse group of educators to use a broadly defined
set of educational tools to serve a diverse population of students through
mathematical inquiry. Many mathematics educators have been doing this work for
years using multiple labels and coming from multiple traditions. However, some
of these educators have not felt welcome in discussions of teaching with
inquiry, or their work has been rendered invisible by the way parts of this
community write their history, and this exclusion impoverishes the community as
a whole.

In this Resolution, we make both an explicit commitment by the SIGMAA
membership and a statement for those who have not felt welcome in this part of
the community in the past and present.

> We, the members of IBL SIGMAA, believe that learning
through inquiry is important for all students because such experiences support
growth toward vital learning objectives, can empower students to participate
broadly in communities of inquiry, and have been shown to close some
achievement gaps. Therefore, we believe all students have equal rights of
access to inquiry experiences. We also believe that teaching with inquiry can
be challenging as well as rewarding for educators. Therefore, we believe all
educators should have easy access to resources and community support for
teaching with inquiry.


> We acknowledge the persistence of discrimination and exclusion in mathematics
based on race, gender, and other factors. As a result of this structural
discrimination, students and educators do not all have the access we believe
they should. We acknowledge that many people have played active and implicit
roles in this discrimination. Given the position of R.L. Moore in the history
of teaching mathematics with inquiry and our position among the inheritors of
intellectual traditions partially of his making, we specifically acknowledge
the direct and symbolic roles that Moore played in excluding students and
educators from experiences with inquiry in the mathematics classroom. Such acts
by anyone run counter to the central value of inclusivity in this community.


> We set aspirational but serious goals for IBL SIGMAA. We dedicate ourselves to
making inquiry-based learning experiences accessible to all mathematics
students. We pledge to make the professional development and ongoing support
needed to teach effectively with interactive and inquiry-based methods
accessible to all mathematics instructors. We take responsibility for the work
of lowering barriers so that this access is practical and equitable. We resolve
to listen and learn and to act in order to make this community proactively
welcoming to all educators.


This Resolution is a statement of values, an acknowledgement of some of the
challenges, and a commitment to doing better. This commitment can only be borne
out through the actions of the IBL SIGMAA and its members going forward.
